Add cookies decision document (#88)
ONSdigital/eq-questionnaire-runner: doc/architecture/decisions/0010-cookies.md

# 10. Cookies

## Context 

We should be clear about what we store in the session cookie and why. 

We store a number of properties in the `session` cookie:

| Property | Description |
|----------|-------------|

> | eq-session-id | The session identifier |

Reviewer: The word seperators should be consistent within the cookie - this seems to be the only property that uses `-`

Author: Fair point. This has been this way for a long time. Now seems like a good time to change it.

| user_ik  | The user half of the encryption key |
| csrf_token | The CSRF token (generated for each request) |

> | theme | Survey theme from schema (`theme`) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| theme | Survey theme from the schema (`theme`) |
```

> | survey_title | Survey title from schema (`title`) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| survey_title | Survey title from the schema (`title`) |
```

| expires_in | Session timeout in seconds from schema (`session_timeout_in_seconds`) or application default (`EQ_SESSION_TIMEOUT_SECONDS`) |
| account_service_url | The link back to the launch service. Used on the signed out and session expired pages. From metadata claims (`account_service_url`) |
| account_service_log_out_url | The The URL to redirect to on signout. From metadata claims (`account_service_log_out_url`) |

- The CSRF token changes per request, meaning that the session cookie is set for most requests. 

> - Language is accessed from the server side session via the Babel `get_locale` method. This means it's only available if the user has a valid session; when the session has timed out screens are not in the appropriate language. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Language is accessed from the server-side session via the Babel `get_locale` method. This means it's only available if the user has a valid session; when the session has timed out, screens are not in the appropriate language. 
```

## Decision

> - Continue using the session cookie for properties that are set on sign-in as they are relevant to the current session. Storing them in the cookie rather than the server side session means that they are still accessible after the server side session times out. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Continue using the session cookie for properties that are set on sign-in as they are relevant to the current session. Storing them in the cookie rather than the server-side session means that they are still accessible after the server-side session times out. 
```

- Store `schema_name` or `survey_url` in the cookie and remove schema properties i.e. `theme`, `survey_title` and `expires_in`. This simplifies runner code as we will always be able to load a schema for any request (if they have successfully launched a questionnaire), and it provides a way to use other schema properties without adding to the cookie.
- The session cookie will contain:

  | Property | Description |
  |----------|-------------|
  | eq_session_id | The session identifier |
  | user_ik  | The user half of the encryption key |
  | csrf_token | The CSRF token (generated for each request) |
  | account_service_url | The link back to the launch service |
  | account_service_log_out_url | The The URL to redirect to on signout |
  | schema_name | The schema filename | 

>   | survey_url | A url to a schema |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  | survey_url | A URL to a schema |
```

> - The `session` cookie should be set once on successful authentication. To enable this we will review our CSRF token implementation - one per session or a separate cookie.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `session` cookie should be set once on successful authentication. To enable this, we will review our CSRF token implementation - one per session or a separate cookie.
```

> - Set `language` in a cookie so it’s not lost as a preference when there is no server side session. This will be stored in a separate cookie as it can be changed by the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set `language` in a separate cookie so that it’s not lost as a preference when there is no server side session. This can be changed by the user.
```

Author: This was worded that way to get across it's storing it in a cookie that means it persists when there is no server side session. The change in wording implies it's also because it's in a separate cookie.

> - Set `language` in a cookie so it’s not lost as a preference when there is no server side session. This will be stored in a separate cookie as it can be changed by the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set `language` in a cookie, so it’s not lost as a preference when there is no server-side session. This will be stored in a separate cookie as the user can change it.
```

- Any future user preferences that need to be remembered will be stored in separate named cookies.
 
## Additional information

> - A `ons_cookie_policy` cookie is set in the front end and is used to enable/disable Google tracking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An `ons_cookie_policy` cookie is set in the front end and is used to enable/disable Google tracking.
```
